# nokaa's blog
## Home

One of my favorite things to create is tools. I enjoy creating tools
that make it more convenient for myself and other developers to work.
I also enjoy talking with other developers about what tools that they
use. You never know when you might learn about a new tool. To that end,
here are some of the tools that I use to cast my spells.

### Hardware
- Arch GNU/Linux
- 13" Apple Macbook Pro
- Ducky mechanical keyboard with blue switches
- Kensington Expert Trackball

The only thing I would like to switch about this setup is my laptop. I
will probably move to an older Thinkpad for my next laptop.

### Software
My environment consists of Awesomewm, Firefox, ZSH+prezto, and Neovim.

My Awesome install is mostly stock, although I'm interested in working
with it more.

MY Firefox install uses a number of add-ons to remove the cruft that
developers seem to enjoy adding to simple websites. Some of these are
uBlock, Noscript, and VimFX. If you are one of those developers who
thinks that requiring me to allow JavaScript to view your shitty blog
is acceptable; you need to step away from the keyboard and think about
what you're doing.

I initially used a stock ZSH install, but I've recently begun using
prezto. I've found that having git information and auto-correct is very
useful. I plan to explore what else it is capable of.

My Neovim install is also very barren. I don't use many plugins, most of
the plugins I use simply add syntax highlighting. The most featured
plugin I use is the Golang plugin, which runs `go fmt` every time I
save.

I suppose that my choice of tools shows that I am a fan of minimalism.
I really like tools that allow me to work without moving my hands off
of the keyboard. I really prefer to see plain-text; I don't think that
it is really necessary to have a bunch of bells and whistles do read
documentation. That isn't to say that I do not appreciate a nice user
interface; after all my website would work just as well if it were plain
text. It is all about striking the right balance between utility and
niceties.

I have made many of
[my configuration files](https://git.nokaa.moe/nokaa/dotfiles)
available, and I have also made
[my changes to prezto](https://git.nokaa.moe/nokaa/prezto) available.
