# nokaa's blog
## My Thoughts on Golang

In [my first post](gopher://nokaa.moe/0/blog/0000.md) I wrote about
using Rust for web servers. I talked a little bit about Golang there,
and I thought that it may be interesting to write about it.

### My Experience With Golang
I began working with Golang in July of 2015 (about 8 months ago). At
the time, I was attending a Hackathon and had no idea what to work on.
I had heard quite a lot about Golang on Hacker News and it sounded like
a nice language.

At this time my experience with NodeJS and C. I really liked writing C,
but I was not capable of writing anything "cool". NodeJS made writing
servers easy, and servers are pretty cool. Golang looked and felt
similar to C, and it also made writing servers easy. It was even easier
to write than C, due to garbage collection.

At the time, it seemed to hit a lot of good points. I started going
through [the tour](https://tour.golang.org) on the way to the
hackathon, and found that the language felt nice to work with. I worked
with it during the hackathon; and grew to love it. By the time I was
home, I had completely forgotten about NodeJS and C; Golang was my new
love.

Over the next several months I worked on a number of small projects
using Golang; such as a blog and a pastebin clone. That is to say, I
have experience with using Golang for nontrivial projects that I use
everyday; but I do not have experience using Golang with other
developers. Also, none of my projects are larger than 1000-2000 lines
of code.

### What I Like About Golang
I really like how _fun_ it is to write software with Golang. Every time
I work with it, I find myself enjoying what I'm writing. That's
something that only a handful of languages really have. I get the same
feeling from working with Rust, Scheme, and [Coq](https://coq.inria.fr).

I love [Bolt](https://github.com/boltdb/bolt). Bolt is an embedded
key/value database in pure Golang. What this means is that you don't
have to deal with setting up a database, and you don't have to write
any funny queries. Bolt creates a file on your disk, and you do your
database operations in pure Golang. This is very convenient for small
projects because it makes setup far easier; just `go get; go build`!
It is also nice that it works anywher Go works, I use ARM based servers
so I never know if software will work. I really wish that Rust had
something similar to Bolt.

I think that one of Golang's best features is how strong its networking
support is. Writing servers is extremely easy using only the standard
library. It is also very fast and low on memory, which is a rare thing
for servers that are often written in languages such as Python, Ruby,
and Java. The complete lack of support in Rust is a little
disheartening, not unexpected. It seems like the community is doing a
good job of filling this gap anyways.

### What I Dislike About Golang
Oh yes, the part that everyone has been waiting for: it's hate on Golang
time! First on the list: everyone always complains about Golang. I used
to pay attention to what people were saying about Golang; but after a
few months I stopped. Everything about Golang was _it's bad_ or
_it won't be big_; it becomes tiring rather fast.

Golang is not the perfect language, no language can fill that role.
However, Golang is very well suited for a number of tasks. The idea of
worrying about how popular Golang is seems rather absurd. For one thing,
it's backed by Google. It's hard to get a bigger vote of confidence than
that. Even ignoring that, if no one uses Golang, it can never become
popular, which just gives us an endless loop.

Unlike most people, I do not dislike how Golang does error handling. I
prefer how Rust and Haskell do this, but it is nice not working with
try-catch or worrying about a panic. Lack of generics is annoying but I
have fortunately not had to deal with this.

Ultimately, my only major complaint about Golang deals with verbosity.
Golang reminds me of Java in how verbose it is. It often takes a lot of
code to do something that feels trivial. In the end, this isn't much of
a complaint. Despite this issue Golang continues to be fun to work with,
which for me is in stark contrast to my experience with Java.

### Why Did I Stop Working With Golang?
The only real answer is that I haven't. I think that Golang is very well
suited to writing servers, and I plan to continue to use it for this
purpose. I've worked with Golang much less lately because my interests
have changed. Lately I have been much more interested in creating tools
and writing low-level code; and I feel that Rust is often better suited
fore this purpose. Ultimately, if I were offered a job working with
Golang I would gladly accept. I think that's a really good test;
_would you work with this language every day?_ If you can answer
_yes_, you must not dislike the language **that** much.

### Conclusion
In the end, this ended up being a post about what I wish Rust would
learn from Golang, but that isn't such a bad thing is it?
