# nokaa's blog
## Making Good Tools

I think about how to make good tools pretty often, and I've decided to
write some of my thoughts here. I am going to analogize common text
editors to weapons in an RPG to explain.

I would like to say that this is not meant to disparage your favorite
editor. I have used all of these editors, and they're all great. You
should use what you like. Except Notepad. Don't use Notepad.

#### Notepad
_Notepad_ is the weapon that you start the game with. Sure it can get
the job done, kind of[1]. However, most people throw it away as soon as
they can.

#### Sublime Text
_Sublime Text_ is like the first decent weapon you pick up. It's made
for beginners and it works really well for a while. You can even enchant
it to make it a little more powerful! However, you quickly reach its
limits and yearn for something stronger.

#### Vim
_Vim_ is a weapon made by experts, for experts. You need a high skill
level to make use of it, but it works very well for those with the
experience to wield it. With enough money, you can add a lot of powerful
enchantments to it which greatly enhance its strength. However, its high
requirements mean that many adventurers are unable to ever feel its
power.

#### Emacs
_Emacs_ is the weapon that you get very early on as an ultra-rare drop.
It's pretty powerful to begin with, but it is also _alive_. Just like
you, Emacs gains experience as you use it, thus allowing it to grow with
you, even going toe-to-toe with expert weapons. This is the weapon
everyone dreams of getting.

Another way of thinking about Emacs is that it is the custom-order
weapon that exactly suits your needs. This analogy works well as an
expert, but most beginners don't have the cash to buy custom-order
weapons.

### Conclusion
From the above, it may seem as though I am saying that
everyone should be using Emacs. This is not the case. I use
Vim, not Emacs. I think that with current hardware; i.e.
keyboard and mouse; modal editing is superior. Emacs is slow and kind
of bloated; this is why I decided to learn Vim over Emacs.

Despite this, I think that Emacs is the superior tool. In Emacs I can
create modal editing; [Spacemacs](http://spacemacs.org) has already
done this. I think that good tools should be easy for a beginner to
use, but they should also have the ability to grow with the user.

I think that Sublime Text fails this in a number of ways; I can't
exactly use Sublime Text on a headless unit can I? It's also
proprietary software, so if I really dislike some part of it, I'm just
screwed. Basically, Sublime Text doesn't grow well.

Vim also fails, largely because it is very difficult for beginners to
use. Most people can sit down with Sublime Text or Emacs and just start
typing. In Vim, you have to learn how to enter Insert mode before you
can even type! I also think that Vimscript is a large negative, it can
make it annoying to expand the editor's abilities. Rather than just
casting _Enchant Item_, you have to sacrifice a goat in a satanic circle
to enchant it.

I think that a lot of things can be improved with our current set of
tools, but even within the realm of text editors there is plenty of
room for improvement.

[1] The fact that Notepad only reads newlines as `\r\n` can be really
annoying if you open a file created on a Unix Machine.
